File Structure: Chronic Absenteeism Data

File structure for Chronic Absenteeism data reported by race/ethnicity, gender, and program subgroup. Chronic absenteeism counts, eligible cumulative enrollment, and chronic absenteeism rate data are provided.

Files include state, county, district, and school level data. Please refer to the file structure for details on what data are contained in the file. Data are not included for districts and independently reporting charter schools (IRCs) that did not certify their California Longitudinal Pupil Achievement Data System (CALPADS) End-of-Year 3 submission.

This file contains aggregate data with disaggregated data subsets at multiple different levels and reporting categories to provide enhanced analytical flexibility. For more detailed examples about how to properly use these data, please refer to the Using the Absenteeism Data File examples below.

Note: To protect student privacy, data are suppressed (*) on the Chronic Absenteeism downloadable files if the cell size within a selected student population (Chronic Absenteeism Eligible Cumulative Enrollment) is 10 or less. Additionally, for Race/Ethnicity, "Not Reported" is suppressed, regardless of actual cell size, if the student population for one or more other race/ethnicity groups is suppressed.

General Description of the Data File

Academic Year

The academic year (July 1 – June 30) corresponding to the time period during which the data were collected.

Aggregate Level

An indicator of the aggregation level.

D = District

Note: One of these values must be chosen to obtain an unduplicated count at the selected level.

A unique two-digit code corresponding to the county.

District Code

A unique five-digit code corresponding to the district.

A unique seven-digit code corresponding to the school.

District Name

District or Administrative Authority Name

Charter (ALL/Y/N)

An indicator of the aggregation level.

All = Includes data for all schools regardless of charter status. For Aggregate Levels T, C, and D, data for all schools are included in the aggregate.Beginning 2020–21, Charter = All is not applicable for Aggregate Level = S.

Y = Includes only data for charter schools in the selected aggregate for Aggregate Levels T, C, and D. For Aggregate Level = S, a value of Charter = Y indicates that the school is a charter school.

N = Includes only data for non-charter schools in the selected aggregate for Aggregate Levels T, C, and D. For Aggregate Level = S, a value of Charter = N indicates that the school is not a charter school.

Note: One of these values must be chosen to obtain an unduplicated count at the selected level. Additionally, prior to 2020–21, a value of "All" was provided for school-level data (Aggregate Level = S); however, beginning in 2021-22, only data rows for the applicable Y or N value of the school are included in the file.

DASS (ALL/Y/N)

New Beginning 2021-22

An indicator of the aggregation level.

All = Includes data for all schools regardless of DASS status. For Aggregate Levels T, C, and D, data for all schools are included in the aggregate. DASS = All is not applicable for Aggregate Level = S (school-level).

Y = Includes only data for DASS schools in the selected aggregate for Aggregate Levels T, C, and D. For Aggregate Level = S, a value of DASS = Y indicates that the school is a DASS school.

N = Includes only data for non-DASS schools in the selected aggregate for Aggregate Levels T, C, and D. For Aggregate Level = S, a value of DASS = N indicates that the school is not a DASS school.

Note: One of these values must be chosen to obtain an unduplicated count at the selected level.

Reporting Category

An indicator of the student group reporting category (race/ethnicity, gender, program subgroup, or grade span) disaggregation or subset.

RB = African American

RI = American Indian or Alaska Native

RF = Filipino

RH = Hispanic or Latino

RD = Did not Report

RP = Pacific Islander

RT = Two or More Races

GX = Non-Binary Gender (Beginning 2019–20)

GZ = Missing Gender

SE = English Learners

SD = Students with Disabilities

SS = Socioeconomically Disadvantaged

SM = Migrant

SH = Homeless

GRTKKN = Grades TK–KN (2021–22 to present)

GRKN = Grade KN inclusive of TK program (2020–21)

GRK = Grade KN inclusive of TK program (prior to 2020–21)

GR13 = Grades 1–3

GR46 = Grades 4–6

GR78 = Grades 7–8

GRTK8 = Grades TK/KN–8 (2021–22 to present)

GRK8 = Grades K–8 (prior to 2020–21)

GR912 = Grades 9–12

GRUG = Ungraded Elementary and Secondary (Retired in 2017–18)

Note: Select Reporting Category = TA for aggregate totals without consideration of a Reporting Category student group.

Chronic Absenteeism Eligible Cumulative Enrollment

This count uses the Cumulative Enrollment of the selected entity as the baseline and removes students that were not eligible to be considered chronically absent at that entity. Students that are expected to attend less than 31 instructional days at the selected entity or who were enrolled but did not attend the selected entity are not eligible to be considered chronically absent at that entity. This is calculated by looking at the number of expected days to attend and actual days attended that Local Educational Agencies (LEAs) submit for each student in California Longitudinal Pupil Achievement Data System (CALPADS). Students with exempt status are also removed from Chronic Absenteeism eligibility. Students are considered to be exempt if they are enrolled in a Non-Public School (NPS), receive instruction through a home or hospital instructional setting or are attending community college full-time.

Chronic Absenteeism Count

Total count of ALL chronically absent students at the selected entity for the selected population using the available filters. Students are determined to be chronically absent if they were eligible to be considered chronically absent at the selected level during the academic year and they were absent for 10% or more of the days they were expected to attend. Chronic absenteeism is calculated for each student at each reporting level (e.g., school, district, county, and state) based on the expected days of attendance and actual days attended reported by local educational agencies (LEAs) in the California Longitudinal Pupil Achievement Data Systems (CALPADS). Expected attendance days are determined for each student at each reporting level based on the total number of days a student was scheduled to attend. Days attended are determined for each student at each reporting level based on the total number of days the student attended the school. A day attended is defined as any day a student attended for all or part of a school day.

Chronic Absenteeism Rate

The unduplicated count of students determined to be chronically absent (Chronic Absenteeism Count) divided by the Chronic Absenteeism Enrollment at the selected entity for the selected population using the available filters.

General Description of the Data File

Absenteeism data are submitted by local educational agencies (LEAs) and charter schools to the California Department of Education (CDE) as part of the annual End of Year 3 (EOY 3) data submission in the California Longitudinal Pupil Achievement Data System (CALPADS). Absenteeism data and Cumulative Enrollment are reviewed and certified in CALPADS as being accurate by authorized district or school personnel. In order to certify data in CALPADS, authorized district or charter school personnel are required to review the accuracy of all data associated with the applicable CALPADS submission. CALPADS data certification must be performed by district superintendents, charter school administrators, or their designees. Please contact the district or school if you have any questions about their certified CALPADS data.

Source: Absenteeism and Cumulative Enrollment data are submitted and certified by LEAs and/or charter schools as part of the annual CALPADS End of Year 3 submission.

Note: An asterisk (*) appearing in a data field is used to protect student privacy.

Using the Absenteeism Data File

This file contains different subsets of data based on the values of different variables. If these sub-setting variables are not used properly, it is easy to end up with incorrect or duplicative data. Please refer to the following examples below as a guide for properly using these data:

Get school-level data totals with one record per school with school totals (without student group totals)

Aggregate Level = S (School)

Charter School (Y/N) = Y and N

DASS (Y/N) = Y and N

Reporting Category = TA

Get school-level data totals by student group (Reporting Category) for all non-charter schools

Aggregate Level = S (School)

Charter School (Y/N) = N

DASS (Y/N) = Y and N

Reporting Category Not equal to TA

Get school-level data totals by student group (Reporting Category) for all DASS schools

Aggregate Level = S (School)

Charter School (Y/N) = Y and N

DASS (Y/N) = Y

Reporting Category Not equal to TA

Get district-level data totals by student group (Reporting Category) for non-charter schools

Aggregate Level = D (District)

Charter School (Y/N) = N

DASS (Y/N) = All

Reporting Category Not equal to TA

Get statewide-level data totals for charter schools that are DASS schools

Aggregate Level = T (State)

Charter School (Y/N) = Y

DASS (Y/N) = Y

Reporting Category = TA
