File Structure: Public Schools and Districts

Definitions for all the elements included in the downloadable public schools and districts files.

Return to the Public Schools and Districts Data Files web page.

County-District-School Code (CDSCode): This 14-digit code is the official, unique identification of a school within California. The first two digits identify the county, the next five digits identify the school district, and the last seven digits identify the school.

Please note that a CDS code ending in '0000000' indicates a district record not a school.

This field represents the 7-digit National Center for Educational Statistics school district (NCESDist) identification number. The first 2 digits identify the state and the last 5 digits identify the school district. Combined, they make a unique 7-digit ID for each school district.

This field represents the 5-digit National Center for Educational Statistics school (NCESSchool) identification number. The NCESSchool combined with the NCESDist form a unique 12-digit ID for each school.

This field identifies the entity's status. Definitions of the valid status types are listed below:

Active: The entity is in operation and providing instructional services.

Closed: The entity is not in operation and no longer providing instructional services.

Merged: The entity has combined with another entity.

Pending: The entity has not opened for operation and instructional services yet, but plans to open within the next 9–12 months.

County name.

District or Administrative Authority name.

School name.

The unabbreviated street (physical) address of this school, district, or administrative authority. Note: Some entities (primarily closed or retired schools) may not have data in this field.

The abbreviated street address of the school, district, or administrative authority’s physical location. Note: Some records (primarily records of closed or retired schools) may not have data in this field.

The city where the school, district, or administrative authority is physically located. Note: Some records (primarily records of closed or retired schools) may not have data in this field.

The zip code associated with the street address of the school, district, or administrative authority’s physical location. Note: Some records (primarily records of closed or retired schools) may not have data in this field.

The state in which the school, district, or administrative authority is located.

The unabbreviated mailing address of the school, district, or administrative authority (i.e., P.O. Box). Note: 1) Some entities (primarily closed or retired schools) may not have data in this field; 2) Many active entities have not provided a mailing street address. For your convenience we have filled the unpopulated MailStreet cells with Street data.

The abbreviated mailing street address of the school, district, or administrative authority (i.e., P.O. Box).Note: Many active entities have not provided a mailing street address. For your convenience we have filled the unpopulated MailStrAbr cells with StreetAbr data.

The city associated with the mailing address of the school, district, or administrative authority. Note: Many entities have not provided a mailing address city. For your convenience we have filled the unpopulated MailCity cells with City data.

The zip code associated with the mailing address of the school, district, or administrative authority. Note: Many entities have not provided a mailing address zip code. For your convenience we have filled the unpopulated MailZip cells with Zip data.

The state within the mailing address. For your convenience we have filled the unpopulated MailState cells with State data.

The area code and phone number of the school, district, or administrative authority.

The phone number extension of the school, district, or administrative authority.

The fax number of the school, district, or administrative authority.

The website address of the school, district, or administrative authority.

The date the school opened.

The date the school closed.

This field identifies a charter school. The field is coded as follows:

Y = The school is a charter

N = The school is not a charter

The charter school number, which is a 4-digit number assigned to a charter school.

Indicates the charter school funding type. Values are as follows:

Not in CS funding model

Locally funded

Directly funded

The District Ownership Code (DOC) is the numeric code used to identify the category of the Administrative Authority.

00 – County Office of Education

02 – State Board of Education

03 – Statewide Benefit Charter

31 – State Special Schools

34 – Non-school Location*

52 – Elementary School District

54 – Unified School District

56 – High School District

98 – Regional Occupational Center/Program (ROC/P)

*Only the California Education Authority has been included in the non-school location category.

The District Ownership Code Type (DOCType) is the text description of the DOC category.

(See text values in DOC field description above)

The School Ownership Code (SOC) is a numeric code used to identify the type of school.

08 – Preschool

09 – Special Education Schools (Public)

10 – County Community

11 – Youth Authority Facilities (CEA)

13 – Opportunity Schools

14 – Juvenile Court Schools

15 – Other County or District Programs

31 – State Special Schools

60 – Elementary School (Public)

61 – Elementary School in 1 School District (Public)

62 – Intermediate/Middle Schools (Public)

63 – Alternative Schools of Choice

64 – Junior High Schools (Public)

65 – K-12 Schools (Public)

66 – High Schools (Public)

67 – High Schools in 1 School District (Public)

68 – Continuation High Schools

69 – District Community Day Schools

70 – Adult Education Centers

98 – Regional Occupational Center/Program (ROC/P)

The School Ownership Code Type (SOCType) is the text description of the type of school.

(See text values in SOC field description above)

The Education Option Code (EdOpsCode) is a short text description of the type of education offered.

ALTSOC – Alternative School of Choice

COMM – County Community School

COMMDAY – Community Day School

CON – Continuation School

JUV – Juvenile Court School

OPP – Opportunity School

YTH – Youth Authority School

SSS – State Special School

SPEC – Special Education School

SPEDATP – Special Education Adult Transition Program

TRAD – Traditional

ROP – Regional Occupational Program

HOMHOS – Home and Hospital

SPECON – District Consortia Special Education School

The Educational Option Name (EdOpsName) is the long text description of the type of education being offered.

(See text values in EdOPsCode field description above)

The Educational Instruction Level Code (EILCode) is a short text description of the institution's type relative to the grade range served.

ELEM – Elementary

ELEMHIGH – Elementary-High Combination

HS – High School

INTMIDJR – Intermediate/Middle/Junior High

PS – Preschool

UG – Ungraded

The Educational Instruction Level Name (EILName) is the long text description of the institution’s type relative to the grade range served.

(See text values in EILCode field description above)

The Grade Span offered (GSoffered) is the lowest grade and the highest grade offered or supported by the school, district, or administrative authority. This field might differ from the grade span served as reported in the most recent certified California Longitudinal Pupil Achievement (CALPADS) Fall 1 data collection.

For example XYZ School might display the following data:

GSoffered = P–Adult

GSserved = K–12

This field represents the Grade Span Served (GSserved). It is the lowest grade and the highest grade of student enrollment as reported in the most recent certified CALPADS Fall 1 data collection. Only K–12 enrollment is reported through CALPADS. This field may differ from the grade span offered.

Note: Special programs at independent study, alternative education, and special education schools will often exceed the typical grade span for schools of that type (i.e., a high school might serve grades three through twelve).

This field identifies the type of virtual instruction offered by the school. Virtual instruction is instruction in which students and teachers are separated by time and/or location, and interaction occurs via computers and/or telecommunications technologies. The field is coded as follows:

F = Exclusively Virtual – The school has no physical building where students meet with each other or with teachers, all instruction is virtual.

V = Primarily Virtual – The school focuses on a systematic program of virtual instruction but includes some physical meetings among students or with teachers.

C = Primarily Classroom – The school offers virtual courses but virtual instruction is not the primary means of instruction.

N = Not Virtual – The school does not offer any virtual instruction.

P = Partial Virtual – The school offers some, but not all, instruction through virtual instruction. Note: This value was retired and replaced with the Primarily Virtual and Primarily Classroom values beginning with the 2016–17 school year.

This field identifies whether a school is a magnet school and/or provides a magnet program. Additional information on magnet schools may be obtained from the CDE Magnets web page. The field is coded as follows:

Y = Magnet - The school is a magnet school and/or offers a magnet program.

N = Not Magnet - The school is not a magnet school and/or does not offer a magnet program.

Note: Preschools and adult education centers do not contain a magnet school indicator.

This field indicates if the school is operating on a year round calendar.

The field is coded as follows:

Y = The school operates on a year round calendar.

N = The school does not operate on a year round calendar.

FederalDFCDistrictID

This field represents the 7-digit National Center for Educational Statistics (NCES) school district identification number (ID) for direct funded charter schools. Beginning in February 2019, direct funded charter schools were issued their own federal district ID and should no longer use the federal district ID associated with their authorizing agency.

The angular distance (expressed in degrees) between the location of the school, district, or administrative authority and the equator measured north to south.

The angular distance (expressed in degrees) between the location of the school, district, or administrative authority and the prime meridian (Greenwich, England) measured from west to east.

The superintendent’s or principal’s first name. Only active and pending districts and schools will display administrator information, if applicable.

The superintendent’s or principal’s last name. Only active and pending districts and schools will display administrator information, if applicable.

The date the record was last updated.

Multilingual

This field indicates whether or not the school offers a multilingual program. A “multilingual instructional program” is an educational program designed to provide instruction to students which leads to linguistic and/or academic proficiency in one or more languages, in addition to English.

Schools with 10 or more students enrolled in any of the following programs are reported as offering a multilingual program.

Developmental Bilingual Program

Dual-Language Immersion Program

Heritage or Indigenous Program

One-Way Immersion Program

Transitional Bilingual Program

The field is coded as follows:

Y = The school offers multilingual programs.

N = The school does not offer multilingual programs.

Note: A value of “No Data” indicates that the data element does not apply to that specific entity, or that data was not reported for the entity. Reasons why data may not have been reported for the entity may be that the entity is not required to report the data, the entity is closed, or the entity is new and has not yet reported the data. Some of the elements in this file are specific to schools, therefore, districts and county offices of education, will not have data in the school specific fields.
